---
layout: post
title: "Log # 4: Finland"
categories:
- travel
---

Being in Finland has had many personal consequences that I don't know how to talk about (or maybe they need some more time to simmer).  Anyway, the short story is that I'm unlikely to talk to Finland again.

With prompting I stayed on a little island just off mainland Helsinki.  Getting to Suomenlinna everyday by ferry was amazing.  I haven't seen a boat plough through ice, pulling off large sheets and turning the small bits in it's wake to slush since I was in grade school.  The island itself is covered by ice, snow, and woods in this peaceful pristine blanket of beauty and nostalgia.  Everything is hushed as the snow absorbs sound (and there's little wind) creating an air of peace and solitude (even in downtown things seem more hushed than SF). 

One of my favourite things is that the president of Finland comes from (and still is) middle class.  She rides economy class on public airlines and walks around without much of (and sometimes any) entourage.  I asked and the responses I got was, "Well, I don't think we really think of the president as someone special."

Finland is the perfect antidote to India, opposite in so many ways.  The people need loads of personal space (except in saunas), there's no doubt one could go about a normal-ish day without saying a whole word (grunting might be necessary), it's cold, it's quiet, there no dust, no insects, no open sewage, the scenery (as opposed to the built stuff) is beautiful, etc.  Despite everything else I'm really glad I came here right after India and stayed a ferry ride away from mainland Helsinki.


Next up, London!
