Passwords Are Awful
===================

Passwords are terrible, they are either easy to remember or easy to
brute-force, no one can remember them so they re-use then across many sites,
and they require a whole other authentication system to reset them when they
are (inevitably) forgotten.  Password managers have mitigated many of these,
and everyone should be using them, and 2 factor auth has helped the stealing
of reused usernames and passwords, but they persist.

When passwords need to be reset the most popular reset choice is to send an
email.  This means that if the email is compromised, so is the site!

Doesn't matter what the password is.

So, why don't we just skip the password and send a one-time link to the users
email.  They click it, it opens in whatever browser, and then that browser is
logged in.  Users are okay cutting and pasting to another browser and have
email on their phones, right?

There are some other considerations.  You need a check box if they are using a
public computer, you need to expire each session, and you need a way to list
and close/log-out running sessions.  That is along with all the normal logging
and auth considerations of using a session cookie.

The advantages of this are mostly that it ties the user's idea of security to
something they already spend a lot of time in and thinking about (email), but
also I think more secure because (if you don't screw up the sessions cookie
infra) there is nothing to brute-force and any attacker has to either get the
session key, get access to one of the user's devices, or get access to their
email.  It's also probably a good idea to only serve this over https.

Disadvantages are that users need access to their emails every time they need
to reset or every time they use a new device or when they expire.  and...
Maybe it's new so it will be a little confusing to some people?  I don't know,
really.

So what are the things you need to do? I don't know.  Now I'm just rambling
filling time.



Notes: disadvantage is that you don't "Seperate concerns" b/c this app it tied
to the email account, so if that gets hacked, so does whatever you are
protecting, BUT that is already the case _with_ passwords, since it is reset
using that.


HAVE to use SSL.  You can't do this with plain text since you are effectively
send the password (session key) over each request.

Set cookie opts, to only your domain/sub/app-path, and to only http (no
javascript with HttpOnly) with is a cross-site-scripting attack defence.
Secure opton is SSL only, so your site should do something useful with that.

"""
When using cookies its important to remember to:

Limit the amount of sensitive information stored in the cookie.
Limit the subdomains and paths to prevent interception by another application.
Enforce SSL so the cookie isn’t sent in cleartext.
Make the cookie HttpOnly so its not accessible to javascript.
"""


You want to record whatever data about the browser you can get so if the
session key is stolen they have to know to steal that data too, admittedly
that is mostly just the user-agent.  (Not IP, probably, explain why.)



Check if cookies are supported!!

If you use ajax and a bunch of javascript then you can't just invalidate old
sessions (could be pending requsets), so our thing of keeping the session id
open for a while (60 days or whatver) mostly avoids this problem.





